We always worked from day to day...
l mean, when we were writing
in the rehearsal studios...
Cos l mean, all the songs
are obviously named...
Lemmy always wrote all the lyrics.
He's a good lyricist,
l love Lemmy's lyrics, he's great.
Lemmy can be very, sort of, deep,
he can be very educational,
he can be very philosophical,
and he can be very funny,
all in the same song.
But it doesn't seem like it upon first glance.
l wouldn't say you have to know him
to read between the lines.
He writes about things that are going on
not only in his life
but all around him or everyone else.
But not...
You know, not specifically.
Very tongue-in-cheek or cynical,
without naming names.
Double meanings and double entendres.
But you know what he's writing about.
He writes great love songs,
they just don't sound like love songs.
So he always wrote the lyrics,
and the song titles came from those lyrics.
He always left his lyric writing
right to the very last minute.
He would be writing all the way through
but he would be changing and chopping them
when he was at home
and not until he was satisfied
with lyrics for a certain tune
would he then show the band the lyrics.
We'd be listening to a playback in the studio
and he'd come up with a different lyric
every day.
lt seemed as if he'd just pulled it
out of the hat
but he'd be working on it at home
or while he was at the bar.
The thing about Lemmy,
he's got great powers of concentration.
He could be working
on the lyrics for something
the same time as reading a book,
playing a one-armed bandit,
sweet-talking some girl and smoking
a cigarette at the same time
and apply equal amount of concentration
on each subject.
Every one was different.
Most of them l write under the clock
in the studio.
l find that works.
Some l've written before we had the song,
most of them l've written for the song
when we've already got the riff.
But Sacrifice and Orgasmatron
l wrote before we've had the riff.
Couple of songs here and there.
But usually l'm better off
writing to the riff, you know.
l think Lemmy is a very, very fine writer.
Very fine writer. Nobody's ever
given him the time of day for it.
lnfluential people have not
so far stood up and said,
this man is a fine writer,
in the British sense.
Don't forget he's British, English.
Lives in LA. Most sensible move
he ever made.
He was starving in this country,
going nowhere,
went to LA and two years later
he's got a Grammy nomination.
That says something about
what you can achieve in Los Angeles.
He would never have achieved that
in Shepherd's Bush.
But he's got a...
unparalleled passion for what it is he does
and as a lyricist he can hardly be touched.
So all around, just his bass sound,
his persona, his creative...
lt's a lot more than even
what Motorhead encompasses.
l mean, obviously, it's mostly Lemmy's input
as far as the writing's concerned,
but the depth of it,
l think people don't even realize
how sincere and deep some of it is.
Cos it's probably delivered
at such high velocity
that people are trying to keep their molars in
and their fillings in their teeth from falling out,
and never stop to think about
the sensitive subtleties
of Lemmy Kilminster's delivery.
l think Lemmy as a lyricist
is completely underrated.
How many other guys in rock-'n'-roll bands
can you name
that have managed to fit the word
''parallelogram'' into a song?
l'd say he's in a field of one in terms of that.
l think, lyrically, Ace Of Spades,
it's got some fantastic wordplay.
lt's got some straight-up
and direct stuff on there as well
but it is a hugely romantic record.
l think his lyrics are very romantic on that.
They do celebrate life on the road
but they also celebrate
the notion of swaggering rock-'n'-roll,
and that rock-'n'-roll is not just about the music,
it's about a way of life.
And l think that's what that record,
lyrically, symbolizes to me.
Lemmy as a lyricist is very underrated.
Extremely underrated.
People chuckle sometimes at the ''simplicity''.
But you know what?
You can remember those words.
And if you look into some of it,
some of his lyrics are very funny.
There's an oblique sense of humor.
He's a great Spike Milligan fan,
and The Goons and Monty Python.
He loves vintage comedy.
He's got an incredible sense of humor,
very dry, very ironic.
The best sense of humor.
Too quick for most people.
Certainly too quick for me half the time.
But a great sense of humor.
And you do see it in some of the song titles.
Shoot You ln The Back, there's a sense
of irony to a lot of this stuff.
There really is. He's having fun with words.
One of the problems with Motorhead,
l was always a bit disappointed
that people didn't read Lemmy's lyrics,
which are very, very pungent, very meaningful,
they're not just ordinary lyrics.
l think if people took more notice...
The trouble was, it was very easy
to dismiss what Motorhead played.
We had terrible trouble with our licensees,
nobody wanted to put Motorhead out.
And we had to really talk everybody into it.
Once they started selling records,
then it was a different thing.
The way we used to write songs,
we always wrote way more
than what came out on the album
because we'd always pick and choose.
We might rehearse a number
for ages and ages
but at the end throw it out
cos we'd get into the studio and record it
and hear what it really sounds like.
Quite a few numbers
don't sound anywhere near as good
as when you're playing them
at a thousand million watts
and can't hear what you're playing
in the rehearsal studios.
You get in the studio
and you can hear every little thing.
Some numbers don't sound as good.
So we did have a certain amount
of self quality control.
l think, with any kind of music,
whatever your personality is,
whatever the kind of person you are
and you write and play music,
your persona, so to speak,
or a side of your character,
will somehow come through in the music.
l mean, l don't think you can avoid that.